README.md, before:

Ansible Shipyard Test-Flight
----------------------------

Test + Build your Ansible Playbooks with Docker.


## Usage

### Production Build

Once built, test-flight can be used like so:

    # To run test-flight in the current directory
    flight launch

    # Or
    flight launch .

    # To run test-flight in the another directory named 'test'
    flight launch -d ./test


### Development Build

During development these commands can be used:

    # Run check
    clear && go run flight.go check

    # Or In another directory
    clear && go run flight.go check -d ./test


## Notes

  - deps managed by [godev](https://github.com/tools/godep).
    Installed via `go get github.com/tools/godep`
  - uses:
    - [golint](go get github.com/golang/lint/golint)
    - [go-dockerclient](https://github.com/fsouza/go-dockerclient)
    - [SpaceMonkeyGo Errors](https://github.com/SpaceMonkeyGo/errors)
    - [Go Flags](https://github.com/jessevdk/go-flags)
    - [FactorLog](https://github.com/kdar/factorlog)
  - go get:
    - go get github.com/golang/lint/golint
    - go get github.com/fsouza/go-dockerclient
    - go get github.com/SpaceMonkeyGo/errors
    - go get github.com/jessevdk/go-flags
    - go get github.com/kdar/factorlog
  - update libs:
    - go get -u all

## Building

- gofmt settings: `-w -s -tabs=false -tabwidth=2`

Commit message:

Move Templates, work on Template constructs, vars, files:
    [x] move templates out
    [x] documentation about building
    [x] template var struct
    [x] populate template var with test-flight-config.json + build.json

README.md, after:

Ansible Shipyard Test-Flight
----------------------------

Test + Build your Ansible Playbooks with Docker.


## Usage

### Production Build

Once built, test-flight can be used like so:

    # To run test-flight in the current directory
    flight launch

    # Or
    flight launch .

    # To run test-flight in the another directory named 'test'
    flight launch -d ./test


### Development Build

During development these commands can be used:

    # Run check
    clear && go run flight.go check

    # Or In another directory
    clear && go run flight.go check -d ./test


## Building

Note that the binary which is created is a complete executable which includes
not only the application but a built in GC, scheduler, etc... This is why the
file size is large. Once running, the go app will NOT take up much memory.

One can build the application like so

    go build

For production only build, without debug

    go build -ldflags "-s"

Further optimizations can be done using UPX, for go one needs goupx. This
can be obtained by obtaining it like so:

    go get github.com/pwaller/goupx/


## Notes

  - deps managed by [godev](https://github.com/tools/godep).
    Installed via `go get github.com/tools/godep`
  - uses:
    - [golint](go get github.com/golang/lint/golint)
    - [go-dockerclient](https://github.com/fsouza/go-dockerclient)
    - [SpaceMonkeyGo Errors](https://github.com/SpaceMonkeyGo/errors)
    - [Go Flags](https://github.com/jessevdk/go-flags)
    - [FactorLog](https://github.com/kdar/factorlog)
  - go get:
    - go get github.com/golang/lint/golint
    - go get github.com/fsouza/go-dockerclient
    - go get github.com/SpaceMonkeyGo/errors
    - go get github.com/jessevdk/go-flags
    - go get github.com/kdar/factorlog
  - update libs:
    - go get -u all

## Building

- gofmt settings: `-w -s -tabs=false -tabwidth=2`
